# Air Line Analysis
This calculator is used to determine the pressure drop of the gaseous oxidizer in our propellent delivery system and to size the orifice which acts as the oxidizer injector. 

## How does Air Line Analysis calculate pressure drop?
It utilizes the fanno flow model for compressible gasses in pipes. A compressible model was utilized instead of an incompressible model in order to capture the density changes that would occur as the pressure within the system dropped due to friction. In addition Fanno Flow assumes the flow to be adiabatic. This model assumption is the most likely to fail. To learn more about fanno flow and the governing equations read chapter 6 of The Dynamics and Thermodynamics of COMPRESSIBLE FLUID FLOW by Ascher Shapiro. The pressure drop is calculated using DifferentialFannoPressureDrop.py. LineLossAnalysis utilizes DifferentialFannoPressureDrop.py to calculate the pressure drop across the entire pipe system. The pressure drop across the orifice utilizes a different model which will be discussed in a further section. 

### Pressure drop in the pipe segments
The pipe segment is broken into 1 mm long pipe segments. This is done because as the gas moves down the pipe the pressure increases causing the velocity and the friction factor to increase. 1 mm was chosen because at that length the pressure drop and resultant friction factor increase was deemed negligible. The algorithm for determining a pressure drop requires both an initial mass flow rate and pressure. As the code marches down the pipe system it adds up the pressure drops across each element and at the end determines the pressure drop across the entire system. However, sometimes the mass flow rate and initial pressure result in the Mach number reaching or exceeding 1 before the exit of the system. In that case the flow is considered fanno choked and any result is deemed non real and an exception is raised for that mass flow rate and initial pressure combination. Either the initial pressure needs to be increased to achieve that mass flow rate or the mass flow rate needs to be decreased. 

### Pressure drop in a valve or fitting